# Day 33

**August 19, 2018** 

Today I brewed some beer. Here are my notes. Its my fourth extract brew so its all still a work in progress. 

**My track record:**       
First batch: Toilet inducing apple cider moth balls     
Second batch: Undrinkable fusel throat buring horror    
Third batch:  Went down the sink due to poor cleaning of copper pipes    
Fouth batch: Crossing fingers, but its not looking good... suspected errors in bold below.  

1. Steep the grains: 206 grams of Crystal grain steeped in 1 litre of water at **67 degrees C** (I think this should be over 70?).  

2. 202 grams of light malt extract added to 4.5 litres of **tap water** (not boiled first... opps) which I brought to a boil. This took about 20-30 minutes. Started the 60min countdown.

3. Add 5 grams of Simcoe hops (pellet form) after 20 minutes (40 minutes left on the boil). Ps I thought I'd try **leaving the lid on the stock pot** this time round which I have read is the a big no-no! Oh well, more apple cider poo stock I guess.

4. Add 308 grams of **light malt extract to the stock pot after 30 mins.** 30 mins to go on the countdown. The kit I bought had DME added in the last 10 mins, figured I'd try something different this time. Still not sure what to expect with this change. Adding this stopped the boil which took about 5-10 minutes to get back up.

5. Add 5 grams of Citra (pellet form) after 50 mins (10 mins left on the boil). 

6. Add 5 grams of Amarillo and 6 grams of Cascade hops (cascade was supposed to be 5 but a few loose pellets got away from me - oh well, bitter me up Scotty). 

7. Add 60 mins on the boil I dropped the stock pot straight into the sink with about 10 cm of water and as much Ice as I could get from the freezer. I checked the **temp after 10 mins and it was 67 degrees C** (Ideally I want <50 degrees C in under 10 mins). I changed out the warm sink water with 10 cm of fresh tap water. Continued the cool down process. This took 30 mins to get down to 28 degrees C. After 30 minutes I poured the wort into the 5 litre carboy vigourously enough to oxygenate it. It ended up with a massive heap of foam that filled the neck of the carboy.  

8. While the ice bath was happening I tried rehydrating yeast (Safale US-05) for the first time. Yes, another change to the recipe. If its bad, I am going to have a hard time telling which part I messed up. I boiled tap water, added 50ml to a pyrex jug and let it cool down to 26.7 degrees C. I added 5 grams of yeast and swirled gently. After 15 mins I stirred it with a mixing spoon (**not sure about the quality of my sterlization of the jug**). 

9. After 30mins cooling the wort and rehydrating the yeast (at the same time) I added the yeast mix/paste to the Carboy. Inverted the carboy several times gently to move the yeast around the wort. **I have no idea what the temp of the yeast paste was when I put it in to the wort** so I probably just killed half of it. Once again, who knows. Not me.

10. Put the stopper in along with the airlock and gently moved into the laundry to sit for two weeks.

11. Cross fingers.

This process took 2.5 hours.
